
NAME
====

`fk425`     - convert ra, dec columns from fk4 to fk5 with proper motion,
             paralax and recession velocity.

SYNOPSYS
========

```
    `fk425` [-i *ifile*] [-o *ofile*] *rcol* *dcol* [*rdcol*] [*ddcol*] [*pcol*] [*vcol*]
```

DESCRIPTION
===========

  Convert B1950.0 FK4 star data to J2000.0 FK5.

  This routine converts stars from the old, Bessel-Newcomb, FK4
  system to the new, IAU 1976, FK5, Fricke system.  The precepts
  of Smith et al (Ref 1) are followed, using the implementation
  by Yallop et al (Ref 2) of a matrix method due to Standish.
  Kinoshita's development of Andoyer's post-Newcomb precession is
  used.  The numerical constants from Seidelmann et al (Ref 3) are
  used canonically.

  The proper motions in RA are dRA/dt rather than
  cos(Dec)*dRA/dt, and are per year rather than per century.

  Note that conversion from Julian epoch 2000.0 to Besselian
  epoch 1950.0 only is provided for.  Conversions involving
  other epochs will require use of the appropriate precession,
  proper motion, and E-terms routines before and/or after
  FK524 is called.

  In the FK4 catalogue the proper motions of stars within
  10 degrees of the poles do not embody the differential
  E-term effect and should, strictly speaking, be handled
  in a different manner from stars outside these regions.
  However, given the general lack of homogeneity of the star
  data available for routine astrometry, the difficulties of
  handling positions that may have been determined from
  astrometric fields spanning the polar and non-polar regions,
  the likelihood that the differential E-terms effect was not
  taken into account when allowing for proper motion in past
  astrometry, and the undesirability of a discontinuity in
  the algorithm, the decision has been made in this routine to
  include the effect of differential E-terms on the proper
  motions for all stars, whether polar or not.  At epoch 2000,
  and measuring on the sky rather than in terms of dRA, the
  errors resulting from this simplification are less than
  1 milliarcsecond in position and 1 milliarcsecond per
  century in proper motion.

  See [slaFk425]( slalib/slaFk425.3.html)

OPTIONS
=======

  * -i *file* Read input from *file* instead of the standard input.
  * -o *file* Write output to *file* instead of the standard output.

PARAMETERS
==========

  * rcol

        The column name of the ra column defaults to "ra".  The column should
        contain RA coordinate values in hours.

  * dcol

        The column name of the dec column defaults to "dec".  The column
        should contain Dec coordinate values in degrees.

  * drcol - proper motion rad/Jul.yr
  * ddcol - proper motion rad/Jul.yr
  * pcol  - parallax (arcsec)
  * vcol  - radial velocity (km/s, +ve = moving away)

SEE ALSO
========


- [fk45z](fk45z.html)     - convert ra, dec columns from fk4 to fk5 assuming zero proper
                  motion.
- [fk54z](fk54z.html)     - convert ra, dec columns from fk5 to fk4 assuming zero proper
                  motion.
- [fk524](fk524.html)     - convert ra, dec columns from fk5 to fk4 with proper motion,
                  paralax and recession velocity.
- [precess](precess.html)     - Precess the ra and dec columns from one equinox to another.


{% include starbase-seealso.md %}
